# HerbariaOCR

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

### *Smriti Suresh, Dima Kazlouski, Douglas Moy - 2023-10-06 v1.0.0-dev*

Note: The file `README.md` is generated from `nbs/index.ipynb`. Do not
edit `README.md` directly, but rather edit `nbs/index.ipynb`. It is also
rendered as the front page to the project documentation.

See [project documentation](https://bu-spark.github.io/HerbariaOCR/) for
the rendered documentation output.

## Overview

The changing climate increases stressors that weaken plant resilience,
disrupting forest structure and ecosystem services. Rising temperatures
lead to more frequent droughts, wildfires, and invasive pest outbreaks,
leading to the loss of plant species. That has numerous detrimental
effects, including lowered productivity, the spread of invasive plants,
vulnerability to pests, altered ecosystem structure, etc. The project
aims to aid climate scientists in capturing patterns in plant life
concerning changing climate. The herbarium specimens are pressed plant
samples stored on paper. The specimen labels are handwritten and date
back to the early 1900s. The labels contain the curator’s name, their
institution, the species and genus, and the date the specimen was
collected. Since the labels are handwritten, they are not readily
accessible from an analytical standpoint. The data, at this time, cannot
be analyzed to study the impact of climate on plant life. The digitized
samples are an invaluable source of information for climate change
scientists, and are providing key insights into biodiversity change over
the last century. Digitized specimens will facilitate easier
dissemination of information and allow more people access to data. The
project, if successful, would enable users from various domains in
environmental science to further studies pertaining to climate change
and its effects on flora and even fauna.

## Install

``` sh
pip install HerbariaOCR
```

## How to use

Refer to the EDA tab for exploring the Herbaria OCR data sources

Refer to the Azure Vision tab for exploring the implementation of the
OCR pipeline to obtain results from the models.

Refer to the LLM Evaluations tabs for exploring the Evaluation metrics
used as well as Accuracy results for English, Cyrillic and Chinese
samples respectively.

## Contributing

If you want to contribute to this project, there are primarily two ways:

1.  Contribute bug reports and feature requests by submitting
    [issues](https://github.com/BU-Spark/HerbariaOCR/issues) to the
    GitHub repo.
2.  If you want to create Pull Requests with code changes, read the
    [contributing
    guide](https://github.com/BU-Spark/HerbariaOCR/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
    on the github repo.
